docs/source/introduction/package_elements.rst, before:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/introduction/package_elements.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Rudolf Cardinal (rudolf@pobox.com).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _Meld: http://meldmerge.org/
.. _MySQL: https://www.mysql.com/
.. _SQLAlchemy: https://www.sqlalchemy.org/

Package elements in brief
=========================

There are multiple stages between a clinical source database and a final
research database. CRATE separates these stages.

.. contents::
   :local:


Terminology
-----------

I will refer to ‘anonymisation’ in this document, but sometimes as a shorthand
for ‘pseudonymisation’, in which IDs are removed and replaced by a generated
pseudonym.


Database connections
--------------------

Most of the CRATE tools talk to one or more databases. They do this via
SQLAlchemy_, which uses a unified URL scheme to define a database connection.
You will need to create a URL for every database you wish to use. In some cases
you may need to install drivers. See “Internal database interfaces” below.


Preprocessing
-------------

Your data may need reshaping or adding to. For example, while you will want to
remove addresses and postcodes from the raw data, you may want to add less
specific but nonetheless useful UK Office of National Statistics (ONS)
geographical information. It may also be that your source database is heavily
normalised [#dbnormalization]_ and you want to de-normalize it to make life
easier for your researchers.

CRATE provides the following optional pre-processing steps:

- :ref:`crate_postcodes <crate_postcodes>`: takes a downloaded UK ONS Postcode
  Database (ONS PD) file and inserts it into a database, for later linking to
  your source data.

- :ref:`crate_preprocess_rio <crate_preprocess_rio>`: adds fields, indexes, and
  views to a Servelec RiO database (or a Servelec RiO CRIS Extract Program
  [RCEP] database) to apply some de-normalization of RiO Core and RiO Non-Core
  data to make it simpler for end users. This program also generates data
  dictionary options for the next step.


Data dictionary generation and editing
--------------------------------------

- CRATE removes identifiable information as it copies a database based on a
  **data dictionary,** which is essentially a spreadsheet with one row for
  every column in the source database.

- You can create this data dictionary manually, and edit it manually, but CRATE
  also provides a way (via the :ref:`crate_anonymise <crate_anonymise>`
  command) to autogenerate a draft of the data dictionary. Use the command
  ``crate_anonymise --draftdd`` to start a data dictionary, or
  ``crate_anonymise --incrementaldd`` to discover new database columns and add
  them to an existing data dictionary. Both these commands refer to a CRATE
  anonymiser configuration file, and that configuration file can contain
  guidance on how to draft the data dictionary, in the form of options named
  ``ddgen...``.

To be more helpful, preprocessors (including :ref:`crate_preprocess_rio
<crate_preprocess_rio>`) can create these options for you; see the
``--settings-filename`` option above. These suggestions incorporate knowledge
about the specific database (e.g. which fields contain patient IDs; which
contain references to external document files; etc). You can take those
suggestions, and add them to your CRATE configuration file. If you do that, the
autogenerated data dictionary will (we hope) be much closer to what you want.

However, you should always review your data dictionary by hand prior to
anonymisation.


Anonymisation
-------------

You can use the :ref:`crate_anonymise <crate_anonymise>` (or
:ref:`crate_anonymise_multiprocess <crate_anonymise_multiprocess>`) commands to
perform the main anonymisation. This can be done in a “full” way, dropping
existing tables and starting from scratch, or in an “incremental” way, looking
for changes to the source database (with respect to the anonymised database)
and changing the anonymised database accordingly.

This tool uses a configuration file that you create and edit. Use
``crate_anonymise --democonfig`` to generate a demonstration file. (For some
database, like RiO, you can mix in the suggested options from
:ref:`crate_preprocess_rio <crate_preprocess_rio>`.)


Natural language processing (NLP)
---------------------------------

You can use the :ref:`crate_nlp <crate_nlp>` (or :ref:`crate_nlp_multiprocess
<crate_nlp_multiprocess>`) commands to pass text from one or more
databases/tables/columns, to an external NLP tool, and the structured data back
to a database table.

CRATE includes some built-in natural language tools, including regular
expression (regex) parsers for numerical results.

The GATE NLP system is also supported, via a Java program. Use
:ref:`crate_nlp_build_gate_java_interface
<crate_nlp_build_gate_java_interface>` to build this before you use it for the
first time.

The MedEx-UIMA system is also supported, via a Java program. Use
:ref:`crate_nlp_build_medex_java_interface
<crate_nlp_build_medex_java_interface>` to build this before you use it for the
first time.

This tool uses a configuration file that you create and edit. Use ``crate_nlp
--democonfig`` to generate a demonstration file.


Web front end
-------------

CRATE offers a web front end that supports researcher access to the data, and
allows managers to operate a specific consent-to-contact process.

It uses a configuration file. Use :ref:`crate_print_demo_crateweb_config
<crate_print_demo_crateweb_config>` to create a starting config that you can
edit, and :ref:`crate_generate_new_django_secret_key
<crate_generate_new_django_secret_key>` to generate a random secret key for
your site (which goes into the config).

The :ref:`crate_django_manage <crate_django_manage>` command provides options
for:

- building the structure of the admin database (``migrate``);

- collecting statically served files (``collectstatic``);

- creating a superuser (``createsuperuser``);

- manually changing a password (``changepassword``);

- populating a consent database (``populate``);

- testing the back-end messaging system by sending an e-mail (``test_email``);

and a few other things that other scripts provide more convenient interfaces
to.

Other scripts include:

- :ref:`crate_launch_django_server <crate_launch_django_server>` for a test
  Django server;

- :ref:`crate_launch_cherrypy_server <crate_launch_cherrypy_server>` to launch
  a production-grade CherryPy server;

- :ref`crate_launch_celery <crate_launch_celery>` to launch the Celery
  message-handling backend;

- :ref:`crate_launch_flower <crate_launch_flower>` for the Flower tool to
  monitor the Celery/RabbitMQ backend;

- :ref:`crate_windows_service <crate_windows_service>` to set up or test a
  Windows service for the web server system. (The CRATE Windows service does
  the equivalent of running both :ref:`crate_launch_cherrypy_server
  <crate_launch_cherrypy_server>` and :ref`crate_launch_celery
  <crate_launch_celery>`, in the background.)


Testing and additional tools
----------------------------

Other tools include:

- :ref:`crate_help <crate_help>` launches this documentation.

- :ref:`crate_make_demo_database <crate_make_demo_database>`: creates a
  demonstration database for testing.

- :ref:`crate_test_extract_text <crate_test_extract_text>` tests methods of
  extracting text from binary files.

- :ref:`crate_test_anonymisation <crate_test_anonymisation>`: fetches raw and
  anonymised data (from a source and a destination database), for a human to
  compare with a tool like Meld_ to verify the accuracy of anonymisation.


===============================================================================

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#dbnormalization]

    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_normalization

Commit message:

SystmOne data dictionary development. Splitting out simple commands formerly provided as options to crate_anonymise. Some minor tidying.

docs/source/introduction/package_elements.rst, after:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/introduction/package_elements.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Rudolf Cardinal (rudolf@pobox.com).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _Meld: http://meldmerge.org/
.. _MySQL: https://www.mysql.com/
.. _SQLAlchemy: https://www.sqlalchemy.org/

Package elements in brief
=========================

There are multiple stages between a clinical source database and a final
research database. CRATE separates these stages.

.. contents::
   :local:


Terminology
-----------

I will refer to ‘anonymisation’ in this document, but sometimes as a shorthand
for ‘pseudonymisation’, in which IDs are removed and replaced by a generated
pseudonym.


Database connections
--------------------

Most of the CRATE tools talk to one or more databases. They do this via
SQLAlchemy_, which uses a unified URL scheme to define a database connection.
You will need to create a URL for every database you wish to use. In some cases
you may need to install drivers. See “Internal database interfaces” below.


Preprocessing
-------------

Your data may need reshaping or adding to. For example, while you will want to
remove addresses and postcodes from the raw data, you may want to add less
specific but nonetheless useful UK Office of National Statistics (ONS)
geographical information. It may also be that your source database is heavily
normalised [#dbnormalization]_ and you want to de-normalize it to make life
easier for your researchers.

CRATE provides the following optional pre-processing steps:

- :ref:`crate_postcodes <crate_postcodes>`: takes a downloaded UK ONS Postcode
  Database (ONS PD) file and inserts it into a database, for later linking to
  your source data.

- :ref:`crate_preprocess_rio <crate_preprocess_rio>`: adds fields, indexes, and
  views to a Servelec RiO database (or a Servelec RiO CRIS Extract Program
  [RCEP] database) to apply some de-normalization of RiO Core and RiO Non-Core
  data to make it simpler for end users. This program also generates data
  dictionary options for the next step.


Data dictionary generation and editing
--------------------------------------

CRATE removes identifiable information as it copies a database based on a
:ref:`data dictionary <data_dictionary>`, which is essentially a spreadsheet
with one row for every column in the source database.

You can create this data dictionary manually, and edit it manually, but CRATE
also provides a way to generate a draft of the data dictionary automatically.
Use the command :ref:`crate_anon_draft_dd <crate_anon_draft_dd>` to start a
data dictionary or to discover new database columns and add them to an existing
data dictionary.

This command refers to a CRATE anonymiser :ref:`configuration file
<anon_config_file>`, and you can use that configuration file to guide CRATE on
how to draft the data dictionary, via options named ``ddgen...``.

To be more helpful, preprocessors (including :ref:`crate_preprocess_rio
<crate_preprocess_rio>`) can create these options for you; see the
``--settings-filename`` option above. These suggestions incorporate knowledge
about the specific database (e.g. which fields contain patient IDs; which
contain references to external document files; etc). You can take those
suggestions, and add them to your CRATE configuration file. If you do that, the
autogenerated data dictionary will (we hope) be much closer to what you want.

However, you should always review your data dictionary by hand prior to
anonymisation.


Anonymisation
-------------

You can use the :ref:`crate_anonymise <crate_anonymise>` (or
:ref:`crate_anonymise_multiprocess <crate_anonymise_multiprocess>`) commands to
perform the main anonymisation. This can be done in a “full” way, dropping
existing tables and starting from scratch, or in an “incremental” way, looking
for changes to the source database (with respect to the anonymised database)
and changing the anonymised database accordingly.

This tool uses a :ref:`configuration file <anon_config_file>` that you create
and edit. Use ``crate_anon_demo_config`` to generate a demonstration file.

.. note::

    For some databases, like RiO, you can mix in the suggested options from
    :ref:`crate_preprocess_rio <crate_preprocess_rio>`.


Natural language processing (NLP)
---------------------------------

You can use the :ref:`crate_nlp <crate_nlp>` (or :ref:`crate_nlp_multiprocess
<crate_nlp_multiprocess>`) commands to pass text from one or more
databases/tables/columns, to an external NLP tool, and the structured data back
to a database table.

CRATE includes some built-in natural language tools, including regular
expression (regex) parsers for numerical results.

The GATE NLP system is also supported, via a Java program. Use
:ref:`crate_nlp_build_gate_java_interface
<crate_nlp_build_gate_java_interface>` to build this before you use it for the
first time.

The MedEx-UIMA system is also supported, via a Java program. Use
:ref:`crate_nlp_build_medex_java_interface
<crate_nlp_build_medex_java_interface>` to build this before you use it for the
first time.

This tool uses a configuration file that you create and edit. Use ``crate_nlp
--democonfig`` to generate a demonstration file.


Web front end
-------------

CRATE offers a web front end that supports researcher access to the data, and
allows managers to operate a specific consent-to-contact process.

It uses a configuration file. Use :ref:`crate_print_demo_crateweb_config
<crate_print_demo_crateweb_config>` to create a starting config that you can
edit, and :ref:`crate_generate_new_django_secret_key
<crate_generate_new_django_secret_key>` to generate a random secret key for
your site (which goes into the config).

The :ref:`crate_django_manage <crate_django_manage>` command provides options
for:

- building the structure of the admin database (``migrate``);

- collecting statically served files (``collectstatic``);

- creating a superuser (``createsuperuser``);

- manually changing a password (``changepassword``);

- populating a consent database (``populate``);

- testing the back-end messaging system by sending an e-mail (``test_email``);

and a few other things that other scripts provide more convenient interfaces
to.

Other scripts include:

- :ref:`crate_launch_django_server <crate_launch_django_server>` for a test
  Django server;

- :ref:`crate_launch_cherrypy_server <crate_launch_cherrypy_server>` to launch
  a production-grade CherryPy server;

- :ref`crate_launch_celery <crate_launch_celery>` to launch the Celery
  message-handling backend;

- :ref:`crate_launch_flower <crate_launch_flower>` for the Flower tool to
  monitor the Celery/RabbitMQ backend;

- :ref:`crate_windows_service <crate_windows_service>` to set up or test a
  Windows service for the web server system. (The CRATE Windows service does
  the equivalent of running both :ref:`crate_launch_cherrypy_server
  <crate_launch_cherrypy_server>` and :ref`crate_launch_celery
  <crate_launch_celery>`, in the background.)


Testing and additional tools
----------------------------

Other tools include:

- :ref:`crate_help <crate_help>` launches this documentation.

- :ref:`crate_make_demo_database <crate_make_demo_database>`: creates a
  demonstration database for testing.

- :ref:`crate_test_extract_text <crate_test_extract_text>` tests methods of
  extracting text from binary files.

- :ref:`crate_test_anonymisation <crate_test_anonymisation>`: fetches raw and
  anonymised data (from a source and a destination database), for a human to
  compare with a tool like Meld_ to verify the accuracy of anonymisation.


===============================================================================

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#dbnormalization]

    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_normalization
