docs/source/introduction/publications.rst, before:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/introduction/publications.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015, University of Cambridge, Department of Psychiatry.
    Created by Rudolf Cardinal (rnc1001@cam.ac.uk).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Reference publications
======================

- Cardinal RN (2017). Clinical records anonymisation and text extraction
  (CRATE): an open-source software system. *BMC Medical Informatics and
  Decision Making* 17: 50. http://www.pubmed.gov/28441940;
  https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-017-0437-1.

  - :download:`View PDF <publications/Cardinal_2017_Clinical_records_anon.pdf>`

Commit message:

Update reference publications (and remove unnecessary binary)

docs/source/introduction/publications.rst, after:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/introduction/publications.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015, University of Cambridge, Department of Psychiatry.
    Created by Rudolf Cardinal (rnc1001@cam.ac.uk).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Reference publications
======================

The primary reference publication is:

- Cardinal RN (2017).
  Clinical records anonymisation and text extraction (CRATE): an open-source
  software system.
  *BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making* 17: 50.
  `PubMed ID 28441940 <http://www.pubmed.gov/28441940>`_;
  `DOI 10.1186/s12911-017-0437-1 <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-017-0437-1>`_;
  `PDF <https://bmcmedinformdecismak.biomedcentral.com/counter/pdf/10.1186/s12911-017-0437-1.pdf>`_.

  Please cite this one if you use CRATE, or databases built with it. Thank you!

Developments to CRATE have also been reported in:

- Cardinal RN, Moore A, Burchell M, Lewis JR (2023).
  De-identified Bayesian personal identity matching for privacy-preserving
  record linkage despite errors: development and validation.
  *BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making* 23: 85.
  `PubMed ID 37147600 <http://www.pubmed.gov/37147600>`_;
  `DOI 10.1186/s12911-023-02176-6 <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-023-02176-6>`_;
  `PDF <https://bmcmedinformdecismak.biomedcentral.com/counter/pdf/10.1186/s12911-023-02176-6.pdf>`_.

  This one is the appropriate citation for CRATE's de-identified linkage
  system.
