docs/source/index.rst, before:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/index.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015, University of Cambridge, Department of Psychiatry.
    Created by Rudolf Cardinal (rnc1001@cam.ac.uk).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


CRATE: Clinical Records Anonymisation and Text Extraction
=========================================================

By Rudolf Cardinal <rudolf@pobox.com>.

.. image:: images/scrubber.png

.. note::

    If you're a clinician or a researcher using a CRATE web site to explore a
    research database, see the :ref:`Overview for clinicians and researchers
    <crateweb_clinician_researcher_overview>`.

..  toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :numbered:
    :caption: Contents:
    :glob:

    introduction/index.rst
    installation/index.rst
    preprocessing/index.rst
    anonymisation/index.rst
    nlp/index.rst
    website_config/index.rst
    website_using/index.rst

    ancillary/ancillary_tools.rst
    faq_troubleshooting.rst

    linkage/index.rst
    misc/index.rst

    autodoc/_index.rst
    autodoc_extra/_command_line_index.rst

    licences/licences.rst
    changelog.rst
    to_do.rst
    glossary.rst


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. * :ref:`modindex`

Commit message:

Key contributors to front page of docs

docs/source/index.rst, after:

..  crate_anon/docs/source/index.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015, University of Cambridge, Department of Psychiatry.
    Created by Rudolf Cardinal (rnc1001@cam.ac.uk).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


CRATE: Clinical Records Anonymisation and Text Extraction
=========================================================

Created by Rudolf Cardinal. Currently developed by Rudolf Cardinal and Martin
Burchell. See :ref:`contributors <contributors>`.

.. image:: images/scrubber.png

.. note::

    If you're a clinician or a researcher using a CRATE web site to explore a
    research database, see the :ref:`Overview for clinicians and researchers
    <crateweb_clinician_researcher_overview>`.

..  toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :numbered:
    :caption: Contents:
    :glob:

    introduction/index.rst
    installation/index.rst
    preprocessing/index.rst
    anonymisation/index.rst
    nlp/index.rst
    website_config/index.rst
    website_using/index.rst

    ancillary/ancillary_tools.rst
    faq_troubleshooting.rst

    linkage/index.rst
    misc/index.rst

    autodoc/_index.rst
    autodoc_extra/_command_line_index.rst

    licences/licences.rst
    changelog.rst
    to_do.rst
    glossary.rst


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. * :ref:`modindex`
