.. crate_anon/docs/source/website_using/clinician_privileged.rst

..  Copyright (C) 2015-2020 Rudolf Cardinal (rudolf@pobox.com).
    .
    This file is part of CRATE.
    .
    CRATE is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    .
    CRATE is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    .
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with CRATE. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Privileged functions for clinicians
-----------------------------------


.. _clinician_privileged_find_text_anywhere:

Find text anywhere
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is exactly like the :ref:`Find text anywhere <sql_find_text_anywhere>`
function available to researchers, but allows you to enter a direct patient
identifier (:ref:`patient ID <pid>` or :ref:`master patient ID <mpid>`) --
such as a RiO number (PID) or an NHS number (MPID). It then searches the
research database.

.. include:: include_clinician_warning_which_patients.rst

.. include:: include_clinician_warning_lag.rst


.. _clinician_privileged_rid_from_pid:

Look up research ID from patient ID
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Researchers operate with :ref:`research IDs <rid>` and aren't allowed to know
patients' actual identities without specific patient consent. Even then, they
are not given :ref:`patient ID <pid>` values.

However, as a clinician you will already know the :ref:`patient IDs <pid>`
and/or :ref:`master patient IDs <mpid>` for patients to whom you are delivering
care. There is a possibility that you may find the research database useful to
search records from your patient(s). You're allowed to see their records in
full anyway. Therefore, you are permitted to look up their :ref:`research IDs
<rid>`, the "currency" of the research database.

.. include:: include_clinician_warning_which_patients.rst


.. _clinician_privileged_submit_contact_request:

Submit patient contact request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is like the function that researchers have to :ref:`submit a contact
request <c4c_submit_contact_request>`, but as a clinician providing care to the
patient in question, you can do more. The "extras" are:

- You can look up the patient using a clinical identifer, such as the
  :ref:`MPID <mpid>` (e.g. NHS number).

- You provide your own details, and any autogenerated letters come from you
  (rather than the computer's other best guess about the right clinician to
  use).

- You can ask the database manager right now to do any delegated work necessary
  (such as printing letters and sending them to the patient).

.. include:: include_clinician_warning_which_patients.rst

